[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, so
let's talk about the command line.
In the beginning there
was the command line, and
really not much else,
if you wanted to do any sort of computing.
This is what you got.
Before Windows, GUI is even something
as simple as a hardware mouse.
Everyone use this and
funny enough it's a 30 year technology but
we're still using it today.
It's a little bit different on
every platform, so Macintosh and
Linux are probably the most similar
although they are not exactly the same.
At some point the Macintosh OS was
based on Linux but they diverged.
So kind of similar but not that much.
And though we have Windows,
which is a whole different beast.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
we're still using the command line today,
because you can just complete
repetitive tasks a lot faster.
Instead of clicking there, moving that
over there and copying and pasting that,
you're just running one command that
can do all these things for you.
And those commands can be automated.
So if you guys see the terms scripting
out there, that's what that means.
The other cool thing is that
parameters to scripts can be provided
which means you can run the same script
that does something kind of similar but
you're passing in different input.
So parameters are a way of
customizing how a command is run and
flags kind of do that same thing.
We'll see flags later on.
So here's what a command
prompt looks like on Mac OS.
And if you guys wanna see that you can
go ahead and open up your Terminal app.
>> Nina Zakharenko: On Windows that would
be command.exc, cmd.exc from the start.
Start and run menu.
So here on my MAC is the name of my
computer which is nina's MacBook Pro 2.
And then nina, which is my username,
the little tilde before nina means
that I'm in my home directory.
And the dollar sign in
the end of the prompt.
So I can type whatever I
want after that dollar sign.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So our home directory
is on our machine where the most
common place where we can write files.
So on Mac and Linux if you have your
commend prompt open and you type cd,
it'll take you to your home directory.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
on Mac that is /Users/ your username.
While on Windows,
it's usually C:\Users\ your username.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Something really
important to note here is that the slashes
face different directions.
Do you guys all see that?
So, big source of confusion for beginners.
On Unix-like systems
the slashes face forward.
So if you're ever on a server or
using someone else's Mac computer,
this is what their file
structure will look like.
While on Windows the slashes are backwards
and that's Windows and only Windows.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, here's a way to
find out what directory you're currently
in when you open up your terminal.
So if you guys on Mac OS will open up
your terminal and type the command pwd.
You guys should see what
your home directory is.
For Windows users, that command is cd,
which stands for current directory.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does
everyone have that working?
You guys all, no?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Go ahead, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Just hit pwd and hit Enter.
>> Speaker 3: Then that'll
print your current directory.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does anyone
else have questions about this?
No.
So, here's the command to
list our directory content.
On Mac OS, it's cd.
Or, I'm sorry.
Sorry, the title on this is wrong.
Let me just change that really quick.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Here we go.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Sorry guys.
So this is how you would go about
to move to a different directory.
I know it's a little bit
confusing because on Mac,
the command is cd which in this
case stands for change directory.
So you would take cd and
then a space followed by
the path to the directory
that you wanna move to.
And then you would type in ls and
that would list the directory contents.
Nope, sorry, I'm wrong again.
>> Speaker 4: That is just
the same on Windows also,
do you have the DIR
command on your Windows?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Cuz you have two
commands under the same title.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Sorry, what I wanted
to do is that is listing directory
contents that we have there.
Sorry guys, I will say this right
now that I am not a Windows person.
And I have not used a Windows
machine in about five years,
so that is definitely not my forte.
So, to list directory contents on a Mac,
you would change directory to
the folder that you wanna be in,
and then you would type ls.
And you'll get a list of items like this,
so
you'll get your folders and your files.
On Windows you would type dir and then the
folder that you wanna see the listing of.